
<BlogInfo id="1207" title="1.15 托福生物背景学习Island" author="小格" pv=0 read_times=0 pre_cost_time=132 category="课外" tag_list="[]" create_time="2023.01.15 23:33:56.843186" update_time="2023.01.16 21:39:41" />



The animal of the first part is the sloth. A male solth hears a enticing call,
a sigal of mating from a female sloth somewhere out there. So he must take a
quick action to find her, but there is a deep water between them. swim, of
course, he gets the island. But the life on the paradise island can also have
the limitation, and he almost find a wrong female sloth. Thanks to the female
sloth is not far away from it.

The second is the home to drogens(this is huge lizzard). It is the largest
lizard in the planet, and it is difficult to find a predator to hurt them. It
seem to see it would not to support theis giant aniaml enough food. On the
contrary, the reptile, being cold-blooded, only needs a tenth of the food
carnivorous mammal would. A meal can support this animal a month. A drogen is
looking for a mate, drogen comes into season once a year, but he strayed into
another patch. Because of the problem of the space, the drogen's
terterritories overlap, so on this area, a drogen thinks he is the king of the
land. They fight, and the size is everything. Since the rivals are closely
matched, making the comeout is uncertain. At last, one defeat, the more
powerful drogen is the winner.

Third animal is not normal monkey, but lemurs. There are 100 different types
from the same ancester. And the vedio introduces three major shape of lemurs,
the largest one, smaller much, and tiny, eat nothing but baboo. At the most
extrem cornor of the island, a kind of lemur faces a challenge in his life.
The land covered with spins is like desert, so it is hard to find water and
food to survie. The mother of him will climb the trees to get the youngest
leaves to provide a whole family. At three month, little lemur can look at
around, he has much to learn if he is to surive.

Forth, some island are forming because of the volcanic eruption, forms the
volcanic island. The sea-going iguanas on this island, because the nearly
creat and remote ditance, mere colonoies can reach this island. So the
iguarnas occupay this desolate land. They are vegetarians and they must look
for food on the sea floor since there are little food on island. The nutrions
brought by iguanas can survive other creatures on the island. For example, the
crabs feed on the deed skin on his back, and it also provide a exfoliation
service. The small lizard eat the flies on the colony. However, not all the
relationships are  harmonious. When the hechlings emerge, they are vulnerable
and they have to walk a long distance to arrive the aldults around. They must
face dangerous one about racer snake. A baby iguana can runout a racer snake,
but the snakes are waiting in ambush. And survived iguanas will learn the
unique way for a life.

The iguanas cannot through the deep water. But even the srormiest waters, are
no barrier for birds. when welcoming a brief summer, the tempreture rises and
the wind slackens. The penguins have to breed defore the winters return. The
shearwaters also come here and they are digging a nest to dreed. The
shearwaters flyoff to collect food for their young. A male albatross are
waiting his partner, only one matters to him. They have been apart away for
six ounths. They have much to do if they are to raise a chick before winters
return.


