
<BlogInfo id="1080" title="1.16托福背景知识学习mountain" author="小格" pv=0 read_times=0 pre_cost_time="93" category="课外" tag_list="['']" create_time="2023.01.16 22:49:10.435573" update_time="2023.01.16 22:49:10" />

First, the index chooses the steepest peak to raise their kids to prevent the
pradetors. But if indexs are to drink, an index family must descent into the
valley. When they get level ground, they become volunerable. the red fox lies
in wait. The indexs are fast learners, now they are almost as sure-footed as
their parents. At last, the red fox does not catch the indexs.

Second, in winter, the food becomes desperately short. A golden eagle is
spanning the slopes. The 2 meters wingspan makes glide effortlessly for over
100 kilometres a single day. Extraordinary eye can see the thing away from
over 3 kilomtres. She finds a dead fox that are eating by some crows. But
bigger eagle comes here, too. And the carion attracts other eagle, and only
the strongest can get the lion's share. She must find other food for mang
days.

Third, the bear spends the whole winter in his dens that is set on the top.
when spring, they emerge. when they are half-sleep, there baby bears are born.
In spring when all bear desent into the valley to get food. They must move as
fast as possible since the debris of valanch is a clear evidence to prove the
mountain is still unstable. Bears need to do something else beyond of looking
for food. Mothers show their cubs what they should do. The bears are willing
to travel long ditance to visit their favourites. All intches just have to be
scratches, leaving an individual and perticular scent to make other bears can
catch a list of it to avoid competitions.

Forth, a bobcat is one of few hunters still active in winter. To avoid his
presence, he uses the bounders as stepping-stones, by listening for fainest
sound to recognize the movement. By mid-winter, the deeper snow makes it hard
for bobcat to hunt. So he has to leave his territories to look for easier
hunt. Luckily, he finds a blessed place, the tempreture is warmer than the
surrounding air becasue of being fed by the vocanic. In whole winter, the
river is full of food, but the bobcat is not used to foot wet. So he catches a
squirrel at last.

Fifth, once the sun sets, every night becomes bitterly cold as winter. But the
cabbage groundsels close up their leathery leave to form a insulating blanket
to shields themsevles. Night comes to an end, cabbage spread their leaves.


